What is authentication? - client and a server.
Client authentication - password
Server Authentication. public key infrastructure (PKI)
2 way authentication.

Send password across something to get to the host. Middleman can steal password in transit. Sending it as plaintext or cipher are both insecure as you cannot send cipher to the host without sending some key first, that itself can be intercepted. (unless you can pre-share a key, which is meaningless to use a password) It can also be intercepted and resent to the host.
# Challenge Response
Client -> connects -> Host. Host -> challenge -> Client. Client uses an algorithm client -> response -> server. In this scenario the key is a secrete on the server and on the server. The thing the host sends as a challenge is something meaningless like a random number.  The response looks like a Hash(concat(challenge, key)).  The challenge number is one time use only.
Future intercepts are fixed by having the client generate something in a similar way every time they talk to the server.
This can be fit into mutlifactor authentication if a password was used in this.
# Multifactor Authentication
says you should have at least two of the following
* What you know
* What you have
* What you are / what you can do - biometrics terrible
# Key Exchange
# One Time Passwords
kinda like a challenge response. Seed h1 -> h2 -> h3...... -> Hn. share the Hn with the host. the client then share h99 with the host to authenticate. Every request the client reduces the n in the change so each time they access its h(n-t) where n is the number of hashes generated and the t is the number of times accessed.

# Authenticator fob.
RSA secure id, every time a button is pressed on the fun it generates a new number. Every time the user login the uid, pw, and number is provided. The fob is a shared secrete key with the host. the fob generates a function(key, time).

# Public key challenge response
client -> id, key1 -> server -> R -> client -> E(key2,r) = x -> server
the x generated by the client is dangerous as it can be used to decrypt messages.
Another problem the public key1 must be known by the host.

Client-> request -> host -> E(key1,r) -> client -> calculate R with key2, sends E(r, msg) ->****