# Secret Splitting and Secret Sharing

Splitting: split a secret so that people can reconstruct it. where each of the split does not reveal anything about the secret
N splits, generate up to R(n-2) which are each split and the last split is S xor R0->R(n-2).
Xoring all of them reveals the whole secrete

Secrete Sharing:
Secrete, share it N ways
any subset of splits of up to K shares will reveal the secrete
A linear graph is an example of a secrete with k = 2. a curve might be k = 3 ect...

n shares, with k threshold
a of k times x^(k-1)... a of k times x (k-2) + secret = y where the result yn is a shared secrete
with enough of the results you can reconstruct the secret
# Bit Commitment
50% prediction without sharing the prediction
Alice sends seed t o bob
Bob encrypts with a key (r,bit) and shares generated blob to alice
after the results reveal k

or with hashing bob hashses R1,R, and bit where R1 is generated by bob
Bob reveals R1
# Timestamping
How to prove a document was created at a time.
A third party to sign a document as a trusted dater. How to keep the trusted dater honest?
Alice sends a hash of a document to Tren
Trent sends to alice signature(n,id(n),Hash of document(n), Timestamp(n), ID(n-1) hash n-1, Timestamp n-1, Ln).
where n-1 is the previous person who used the service. this links the records together as a linked list. aka a Linked TimeStamp Protocol

Distributed protocol
large group of volunteers, each have an ID of size N.
Alice creates a document and a hash chain of k size. assign each item in the hash chain to a single volunteer. up to k times
# Dining Cryptographers
based on dining philosophers problem
how to determine if people in a group did something or someone outside the group

# Commutative Encryption and Mental Poker
a + b = b + a
AES = k1,k2 -> ek2 (ek1(x)) != ek1 (ek2(x)) this is not commutative
How to encrypt with either key first
3 pass protocol
alice has k a and bob kb
ka(msg) -> bob encrypt with kb (ka(msg))
alice decryptes
if it was commutative alice's key would be stripped.
One Time Pad is communitive
RSA is communitive if the modulus is shared